Water can move up narrow tubes against the force of gravity in what is known as capillary action. 
The brain uses over a quarter of the oxygen used by the human body.
Most of the dust in your home is actually dead skin! Yuck!
Humans get a little taller in space because there is no gravity pulling down on them.
Chemists study various chemical elements and compounds, their properties and how they work together in our bodies and the world around us.
Modern society relies heavily on the convenience and versatility of electricity. It powers your microwave, helps light your house, lets you watch TV and so much more.
Your heart beats around 100000 times a day, 36500000 times a year and over a billion times if you live beyond 30
The left side of your body is controlled by the right side of your brain while the right side of your body is controlled by the left side of your brain.
When traveling at 80 kilometers per hour (50 miles per hour), cars use around half of their fuel just to overcome wind resistance.
The Earth isn't perfectly round, it is slightly flattened at the north and south poles. 
Scientists have the dated the Earth as being between 4 and 5 billion years old!
Approximately 20% of the oxygen in the atmosphere was produced by the Amazon rainforest.
The only elements that are liquid at room temperature are bromine and mercury. However, you can melt gallium by holding a lump in the warmth of your hand.
If you pour a handful of salt into a full glass of water, the water level will actually go down rather than overflowing the glass.
Although oxygen gas is colorless, the liquid and solid forms of oxygen are blue.
There is about 1/2 lb or 250 g of salt (NaCl) in the average adult human body.
Hydrofluoric acid is so corrosive that it will dissolve glass. Although it is corrosive, hydrofluoric acid is considered to be a 'weak acid'.
The hardest chemical in your body is your tooth enamel.
Graphite can be transformed into diamond by applying a temperature of 3000°C and pressure of 100,000 atm.
Each time lightning strikes, some Ozone gas is produced, thus strengthening the Ozone Layer in the Earth's atmosphere.
The only letter not used in the periodic table is J.
The human body contains enough carbon to provide 'lead' (which is really graphite) for about 9,000 pencils.
Approximately 20% of the oxygen in the atmosphere was produced by the Amazon rainforest.
Only 28 grams of the rarest substance on Earth exist. What’s the rarest substance on Earth? Astatine.
Liquid nitrogen boils at 77 Kelvin (−196 °C, −321 °F).
Athletes at the Olympic Games have to be careful how much coffee they drink. The caffeine in coffee is a banned substance because it can enhance performance.
Natural Gas has no odor, rather the smell is added in artificially.
The largest organism in the world is a fungus, the honey mushroom or Armillaria ostoyae
Super fluid helium can climb walls
An iceberg contains significantly more total heat energy than a burning match. The reason is the sheer size of the iceberg. 
Caves breathe. They inhale and exhale great quantities of air when the barometric pressure on the surface changes, and air rushes in or out seeking equilibrium.
When a new queen bee emerges in a hive, she “pipes” (repeatedly sings a G# or A note) to incite her worker bees to fight for her if another queen in the hive needs killing. You can listen to the piping in the youtube clip above. All bees pipe the same note – but Africanized bees pipe more frequently and louder. You can hear another clearer example here. The difference in pitch between the video clip and the sound file is cause by compression and quality of recording devices.
There is a current scientific hypothesis that the sun has a companion which is currently about 1-1.5 light years away. It is believed that it has an elliptical orbit which, every 26 million years, sends matter towards the earth causing mass Extinction events. It was the discovery of these seemingly regular events that gave rise to the hypothesis in the first place. The star is predicted to be most likely a red or brown dwarf and has been named Nemesis or “Death Star”.
Fulgurite is the name for fossilized lightning. They are natural hollow glass tubes formed in quartzose sand, or silica, or soil by lightning strikes and are formed when lightning with a temperature of at least 1,800 degrees Celsius instantaneously melts silica on a conductive surface and fuses grains together. 
When Anders Celsius (1701–1744) created the celsius scale, he invented it upside-down with 0 ? being the boiling point of water and 100 ? being the freezing point. It was reversed in the year of Celsius’ death by Carolus Linnaeus.
When dropped on a very hard, rigid surface, glass balls and steel balls will bounce higher than rubber ones. The reason is that rubber balls deform significantly on impact, flattening onto the surface, and then springing back. In the process of this squashing, some energy is lost.
Sound travels much faster through a steel than it does air: Sound travels at 5100 m/s through steel, 1480 m/s through water and 330 m/s through air.
The cracking sound of a whip is actually a sonic boom – this is because the tip of the whip travels faster than the speed of sound. The whip is the first man made device capable of exceeding the sound barrier.
The world’s first nuclear reactor was built in a squash court beneath a Chicago football stadium on December 2, 1942. While it only generated enough power to light a flashlight, it proved that nuclear power was feasible
Humans carry more bacterial cells than human cells; you are more bacteria than you are YOU.
Potatoes have more chromosomes than people. Rice has nearly twice as many genes as people.
Heinrich Hertz, who discovered radio waves, was once asked what the point of them was. His answer? “I’ve no idea but I guess someone will find a use for them someday”.
The average person accidentally eats 430 bugs each year of their life.
Your eyes are always the same size from birth (but your nose and ears never stop growing).
Although oxygen gas is colorless, the liquid and solid forms of oxygen are blue.
The human body contains enough carbon to provide 'lead' (which is really graphite) for about 9,000 pencils.
One bucket full of water contains more atoms than there are bucketfuls of water in the Atlantic ocean
Liquid air has a bluish tint, similar to water.
The coldest state of matter —Bose-Einstein Condensate superfluid — defies gravity and instead of flowing down, it flows upward.
The element Californium is often called the most expensive substance in the world (as much as $68 million for one gram.)
Hot water freezes faster than cold water (the Mpembaeffect.)
The noble gas Xenon lasers can cut through materials that are so tough even diamond tipped blades will not cut.
The burning sensation we get from chilli peppers is because of a chemical called Capsaicin.
Honey does not spoil.
Each time lightning strikes, some Ozone gas is produced, thus strengthening the Ozone Layer in the Earth's atmosphere.
There's enough gold in the Earth's crust to cover the entire land surface knee-deep.
The only letter not appearing on the Periodic Table is the letter J.
Glass is actually a liquid, it just flows very, very slowly. Same with asphalt.
In the early 1940s a large portion of the world’s plutonium supply was accidentally ingested by a lab technician. The majority of plutonium, like other heavy metals, passes right through your digestive tract.
Watson and Crick, the co-discoverer’s of the DNA double helix never actually ran any experiments on their own, but rather read deeply into others’ work and deduced the structure.
Lithium can alter how you think and has been known to “cure” certain mental illnesses. In fact, lithium is used in a lot of psychoactive drugs.
One of the first x-rays, a picture you’ve probably seen of a woman’s hand with a ring on it, was of Bertha Rontgen’s hand. She thought seeing her bones was a death omen.
People used to drink radioactive water from a device called the “Revigator.” It was considered to be a healthy drink.
Diamonds aren’t the rarest gems on Earth. In fact, they’re relatively common. The rarest gem is jadeite and costs about $3 million per carat.
Only 28 grams of the rarest substance on Earth exist. What’s the rarest substance on Earth? Astatine.
Mosquitoes like the scent of estrogen, hence, women get bitten by mosquitoes more often than men do.
Natural gas has no odour. The smell is added artificially so that leaks can be detected
If you slowly pour a handful of salt into a totally full glass of water it will not overflow. In fact, the water level will go down.
If the Sun were made of bananas, it would be just as hot
All the matter that makes up the human race could fit in a sugar cube
Light does not always travel through a vacuum. In water, for example, photons travel at around three-quarters that speed.
Incidentally, the slowest light has ever been recorded travelling was 17 meters per second – about 38 miles an hour – through rubidium cooled to almost absolute zero, when it forms a strange state of matter called a Bose-Einstein condensate.
there is a disease that affects the inner ear and amplifies all internal sounds. It gets to the point where the sound of eyeballs moving in their sockets sounds like "sandpaper on wood". Its called the Superior Canal Dehiscence Syndrome.
There is an ancient arthropod ancestor named Hallucigenia because "nothing about it makes much sense"
There is a species of spider named Calponia harrisonfordi and a species of spider named Pheidole harrisonfordi in honor of the actor's work as a conservationist and environmentalist.
Regular coffee drinkers have a decreased risk of Alzheimer's disease, dementia, and other health problems due to an unidentified component interacting with the caffeine.
In 2011, a fungus was found in the Amazon Forest that can feed on a diet solely of polyurethane (plastic). It can also do so in a non-aerobic environment.
Mars' smallest moon, Deimos, has an escape velocity of 5.6 m/s, meaning that if you were to take a running jump while on it, you would launch off like a slow rocket.
The human brain is wired to connect with others so strongly that it experiences what they experience as if its happening to us.
The world's largest virus has a unique genome. 93% of its DNA does not seem to match with the DNA of any other organism. This hints at a fourth domain of life.
In the late Devonian period (during the evolution of terrestrial plants), there was a "wood crisis". Trees became abundant, took CO2 out of the air, and caused an ice age simply because the fungi that eventually would decompose dead wood and return the CO2 to the air hadn't evolved yet.
Scientists have developed a beer that has electrolytes, making it more hydrating and refreshing.
A human brain produces as many as 12,000 to 50,000 thoughts per day, depending on how deep a thinker a person is. Most of the so-called random daily thoughts are about our social environment and ourselves.
Contrary to popular belief, Einstein never failed math in school. In fact, by 15 he had already mastered differential and integral calculus.
The Super Mushrooms used in Mario are based on a fungi named Amanita Muscaria. They make the user feel as though they are growing in size. This effect was also referenced in Alice in Wonderland.
Cats have no naturally occurring antibodies against dogs' blood. So they can receive a dog's blood in life-threatening situations. But only once. The second time proves fatal.
The domesticated dog evolved from a tamer version of the grey wolf. Based on DNA evidence, researchers currently believe the dog was domesticated in Asia at least 15,000 years ago, with some scientists arguing that dogs and humans have been partners for as long as 100,000 years.
Black holes aren’t black. They glow, slightly, giving off light across the whole spectrum, including visible light.
Without E=MC2, GPS would malfunction.
Despite all the advances made in astrophysics in recent years, not least the discovery of various exoplanets beyond our solar system, we don’t know what makes up the majority of the universe.
At ‘normal’ speeds, this mass gain is pretty negligible, but as you approach the speed of light mass begins to increase dramatically.
According to the multiverse theory, there are an infinite number of universes existing parallel to one another, with each differing slightly and every possible scenario being played out in its own universe.
The effect of Relativity made Astronaut Sergei Avdeyev a fraction of a second younger upon his return to Earth after 747 days in space.Submitted by: Moi - CanadaSubmitted by: Moi - Canada
The Dead Sea is so dense with salt, you can easily float on it without drowning.
Lake Baikal in Russia contains more water than all the North American Great Lakes combined.
The world's densest wood, the Black Ironwood (Olea laurifolia), does not float on water and therefore sinks.
The mass of our entire atmosphere is estimated to be some 5.5 quadrillion tons (55 followed by 14 zeros).
Chewing gum was invented by a dentist, named William Semple - as a way to exercise your jaws.
If you stand on the equator, the land beneath you will go up and down by as much as 21 inches (55 centimeters) over the course of a day.
Because of relativity, you head is slightly older than your feet. Because your feet are usually closer to the center of the earth, time moves faster for your feet.
All the gold ever mined from the earth by humans, would comprise a 66 by 66 foot cube. 
The average rocket delivers just 3-5% of its take-off weight to space. Fuel accounts for more than 90% of a rocket’s mass! 
The first freely programmable computer was made by Konrad Zuse in 1938. It is known as the Z1.
On a mountain in Texas, a team of engineers sponsored by Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, is constructing a clock that will operate on its own for 10,000 years. The clock is being built from reinforced titanium and stainless steel, and it can capture energy from temperature changes. 
